## About Me

I am a Research Scientist and Technical Lead at Meta Platforms where I
drive two separate technical directions: (1) early industry
partnerships for developing large-scale supercomputers in support of
our AI workloads; and (2) design and optimization of HPC networks,
communication libraries, and their supporting ecosystem.  I contribute
to the AI hardware/software codesign aspects of the Meta ecosystem in
a pathfinding research role.  I help codesign our AI application
requirements for communication, network, and scale-up/scale-out with
various hardware and software solutions (both external or homegrown),
and influence vendor architecture and software roadmaps to align with
Meta's long-term workload requirements.

Before joining Meta, I used to hold appointments as a Senior computer
Scientist and Group Lead at the Argonne National Laboratory and as an
Institute Fellow of the Northwestern-Argonne Institute of Science and
Engineering at Northwestern University.  At Argonne, I have lead two
groups. The first group focused on Programming Models and Runtime
Systems and mainly covering areas related to communication runtime
systems, threading models, accelerator models, big data and cloud
computing systems, and other related technologies.  The second group
focused on Future Architectures for AI and mainly covered technologies
related to AI, machine learning and deep learning, particularly in the
area of AI for science.  I also contributed to the design and software
implementation of a number of projects on communication runtime
systems (MPI, UCX), threading models (lightweight threads such as
Argobots, OpenMP), and heterogeneous memory systems.  Particularly
noteworthy are the [MPICH project](http://www.mpich.org) (used by
thousands of supercomputers around the world, including the three
upcoming US Exascale supercomputers --- Aurora, Frontier, and El
Capitan), the [UCX project](https://www.openucx.org) (R&D100 award
winner in 2019), and the [Argobots project](https://www.argobots.org)
(R&D100 award finalist in 2020, and a driving piece of software for
numerous supercomputers and commercial products such as Intel DAOS).

I have held several other leadership roles in the community serving on
the board of directors or advisory board for numerous domestic and
International projects, including UCX (US), Cilkplus (US), EPEEC
(Europe), Exascale Technologies (China), and various others.  I have
also served as a general or technical program chair or editor for
numerous high-profile conferences and journals including IEEE/ACM SC
in 2019 (technical program chair), IEEE Cluster in 2015 (general
co-chair), IEEE/ACM CCGrid in 2015 (general co-chair), and so on.  I
also served as an advisor for Argonne's computing facility on the
programming models aspects of the various upcoming supercomputers,
including Aurora, which is expected to be one of the early US Exascale
supercomputers.
