Dr. Pavan Balaji is a Principal Research Scientist at Meta AI, where
he serves as the technical lead for two areas: (1) GPU training
systems (architectural design, performance analysis); and (2) AI
communication libraries for our various hardware systems (GPUs, Meta
internal silicon).  Dr. Balaji helped build some of Meta's largest AI
supercomputing systems, such as the recent Grand Teton architecture,
that power Meta's internal AI workloads, including recommendation and
ranking models and Generative AI models such as Llama.

Before joining Meta, Dr. Balaji held appointments as a Senior computer
Scientist and Group Lead at the Argonne National Laboratory and as an
Institute Fellow of the Northwestern-Argonne Institute of Science and
Engineering at Northwestern University.  He contributed to the design
and software implementation of a number of projects on communication
runtime systems (MPI, UCX), threading models (lightweight threads such
as Argobots, OpenMP), and heterogeneous memory systems.  Particularly
noteworthy are the MPICH project (used by thousands of supercomputers
around the world, including the three US Exascale supercomputers ---
Aurora, Frontier, and El Capitan), the UCX project (R&D100 award
winner in 2019), and the Argobots project (R&D100 award finalist in
2020, and a driving piece of software for numerous supercomputers and
commercial products such as Intel DAOS).

Dr. Balaji has held several other leadership roles in the community
serving on the board of directors or advisory board for numerous
domestic and International projects, including UCX (US), Cilkplus
(US), EPEEC (Europe), and Exascale Technologies (China).  He has also
served on the organizing committee for numerous high-profile
conferences and journals including IEEE/ACM SC (technical program
chair), IEEE Cluster (general co-chair), IEEE/ACM CCGrid (general
co-chair, program chair), and IEEE TPDS (associate editor-in-chief).
